README.MD, before:

# End-to-End AI for Science

This Bootcamp will provide researchers hands-on approaches on how to use NVIDIA PhysicsNeMo, a framework that combines physics and partial differential equations (PDEs) with artificial intelligence (AI) to build robust models. Participants will also learn about the differences between Physics-driven and Data-driven approaches to AI. In addition, the Bootcamp will provide hands-on experience with visualizing the results of physics simulations using ParaView. This Lab will also introduce you to Earth2Studio where you get to try out different workflows for various Weather forecasting models!

<p align="center">
  <img width="600" height="400" src="https://github.com/openhackathons-org/End-to-End-AI-for-Science/blob/d403086ce59c49b26be430bbea0056c37bd4d5f6/workspace/python/jupyter_notebook/omniverse/images/tcwv.gif">
</p>


## Bootcamp contents:

The content is structured in multiple modules covering the following: 

- Introduction to NVIDIA PhysicsNeMo
- Module 1: Physics Informed approaches to an AI for Scientific application.
  - Lab 1: Simulating Projectile Motion
  - Lab 2: Steady State Diffusion in a Composite Bar using PINNs
  - Lab 3: Forecasting weather using Navier-Stokes PDE
  - Lab 4: Spring mass problem - Solving transient problems and inverse problems - Optional 
- Module 2: Data-driven approach to an AI for Scientific application.
  - Lab 1: Solving the Darcy-Flow problem using FNO
  - Lab 2: Solving the Darcy-Flow problem using AFNO
  - Lab 3: Forecasting weather using FourCastNet
  - Lab 4: Modeling Magnetohydrodynamics with Physics Informed Neural Operators
- Module 3: Data-driven approach using PhysicsNeMo Core and Introduction to Earth2Studio
  - Lab 1: Training Physics-ML Models using PhysicsNeMo Core
  - Lab 2: Training Weather forecasting Models using PhysicsNeMo Core
  - Lab 3: Introduction to Earth2Studio - Deterministic Inference
  - Lab 4: Introduction to Earth2Studio - Diagnostic & Ensemble Inference
- Module 4: Application of DoMINO to external aerodynamics simulations
  - Lab 1: Data pre-processing pipeline for DoMINO
  - Lab 2: Training and Inference recipe for DoMINO using PhysicsNeMo
- Module 5: From Transformer theory to Transolver, a new approach for large-scale physics simulations
  - Lab 1: The “Why”: Introduces standard Transformer attention and its quadratic complexity. Explains why this bottleneck makes it impractical for large-scale physics meshes.
  - Lab 2: The “How”: Presents a NumPy blueprint of Physics-Attention using the Slice–Aggregate–Attend–Deslice workflow. Shows how learnable slices enable attention over physics-aware tokens.
  - Lab 3: The “Factory”: Builds a full training pipeline with PhysicsNeMo and provided scripts. Preprocesses  VTP/STL files (Ahmed body Surface Data), computes normalization statistics, and runs a short training loop.

## Tools and frameworks:

The tools and frameworks used in the bootcamp are as follows:
- [NVIDIA® PhysicsNeMo](https://developer.nvidia.com/PhysicsNeMo)
- [NVIDIA Earth2Studio](https://github.com/NVIDIA/earth2studio)
- [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/)

## Bootcamp duration:

The overall bootcamp will take approximately 14 hours. 

## Bootcamp prerequisites:

Mathematical background in Differential equations, Python proficiency, and familiarity with deep learning fundamentals and frameworks are required.

## Deploying the Bootcamp materials:

For deploying the materials, please refer to the Deployment guide present [here](Deployment_Guide.MD)

## Attribution

This material originates from the OpenHackathons Github repository. Check out additional materials [here](https://github.com/openhackathons-org)

Don't forget to check out additional [Open Hackathons Resources](https://www.openhackathons.org/s/technical-resources) and join our [OpenACC and Hackathons Slack Channel](https://www.openacc.org/community#slack) to share your experience and get more help from the community.

## Licensing

Copyright © 2024 OpenACC-Standard.org. This material is released by OpenACC-Standard.org, in collaboration with NVIDIA Corporation, under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0). These materials may include references to hardware and software developed by other entities; all applicable licensing and copyrights apply.

Commit message:

adding Notebook4-Understanding-GALE-GeoTransolver

README.MD, after:

# End-to-End AI for Science

This Bootcamp will provide researchers hands-on approaches on how to use NVIDIA PhysicsNeMo, a framework that combines physics and partial differential equations (PDEs) with artificial intelligence (AI) to build robust models. Participants will also learn about the differences between Physics-driven and Data-driven approaches to AI. In addition, the Bootcamp will provide hands-on experience with visualizing the results of physics simulations using ParaView. This Lab will also introduce you to Earth2Studio where you get to try out different workflows for various Weather forecasting models!

<p align="center">
  <img width="600" height="400" src="https://github.com/openhackathons-org/End-to-End-AI-for-Science/blob/d403086ce59c49b26be430bbea0056c37bd4d5f6/workspace/python/jupyter_notebook/omniverse/images/tcwv.gif">
</p>


## Bootcamp contents:

The content is structured in multiple modules covering the following: 

- Introduction to NVIDIA PhysicsNeMo
- Module 1: Physics Informed approaches to an AI for Scientific application.
  - Lab 1: Simulating Projectile Motion
  - Lab 2: Steady State Diffusion in a Composite Bar using PINNs
  - Lab 3: Forecasting weather using Navier-Stokes PDE
  - Lab 4: Spring mass problem - Solving transient problems and inverse problems - Optional 
- Module 2: Data-driven approach to an AI for Scientific application.
  - Lab 1: Solving the Darcy-Flow problem using FNO
  - Lab 2: Solving the Darcy-Flow problem using AFNO
  - Lab 3: Forecasting weather using FourCastNet
  - Lab 4: Modeling Magnetohydrodynamics with Physics Informed Neural Operators
- Module 3: Data-driven approach using PhysicsNeMo Core and Introduction to Earth2Studio
  - Lab 1: Training Physics-ML Models using PhysicsNeMo Core
  - Lab 2: Training Weather forecasting Models using PhysicsNeMo Core
  - Lab 3: Introduction to Earth2Studio - Deterministic Inference
  - Lab 4: Introduction to Earth2Studio - Diagnostic & Ensemble Inference
- Module 4: Application of DoMINO to external aerodynamics simulations
  - Lab 1: Data pre-processing pipeline for DoMINO
  - Lab 2: Training and Inference recipe for DoMINO using PhysicsNeMo
- Module 5: From Transformer theory to Transolver, a new approach for large-scale physics simulations
  - Lab 1: The “Why”: Introduces standard Transformer attention and its quadratic complexity. Explains why this bottleneck makes it impractical for large-scale physics meshes.
  - Lab 2: The “How”: Presents a NumPy blueprint of Physics-Attention using the Slice–Aggregate–Attend–Deslice workflow. Shows how learnable slices enable attention over physics-aware tokens.
  - Lab 3: The “Factory”: Builds a full training pipeline with PhysicsNeMo and provided scripts. Preprocesses  VTP/STL files (Ahmed body Surface Data), computes normalization statistics, and runs a short training loop.
- Module 6: From Transolver to GeoTransolver – Bridging Geometry and Physics with GALE
  - Lab 1: The "Geometry Bridge": Understanding representation drift, the GALE mechanism, 
           and multi-scale geometry conditioning through interactive visualization.
  - Lab 2: The "Pipeline": Training GeoTransolver on automotive aerodynamics datasets 
           using PhysicsNeMo (will be added soon).


## Tools and frameworks:

The tools and frameworks used in the bootcamp are as follows:
- [NVIDIA® PhysicsNeMo](https://developer.nvidia.com/PhysicsNeMo)
- [NVIDIA Earth2Studio](https://github.com/NVIDIA/earth2studio)
- [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/)

## Bootcamp duration:

The overall bootcamp will take approximately 14 hours. 

## Bootcamp prerequisites:

Mathematical background in Differential equations, Python proficiency, and familiarity with deep learning fundamentals and frameworks are required.

## Deploying the Bootcamp materials:

For deploying the materials, please refer to the Deployment guide present [here](Deployment_Guide.MD)

## Attribution

This material originates from the OpenHackathons Github repository. Check out additional materials [here](https://github.com/openhackathons-org)

Don't forget to check out additional [Open Hackathons Resources](https://www.openhackathons.org/s/technical-resources) and join our [OpenACC and Hackathons Slack Channel](https://www.openacc.org/community#slack) to share your experience and get more help from the community.

## Licensing

Copyright © 2024 OpenACC-Standard.org. This material is released by OpenACC-Standard.org, in collaboration with NVIDIA Corporation, under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0). These materials may include references to hardware and software developed by other entities; all applicable licensing and copyrights apply.
