workspace/python/jupyter_notebook/DoMINO/README.md, before:

# PhysicsNeMo External Aerodynamics DLI

This Deep Learning Institute (DLI) course introduces participants to physics-informed machine learning techniques applied to external aerodynamics. Using NVIDIA's Physics NeMo and NeMo Framework, the course walks through the full pipeline — from preprocessing CFD data to training and deploying advanced geometric deep learning models.

## Introduction

Participants will work with the **Ahmed body** benchmark — a canonical problem in automotive aerodynamics — to build a surrogate model. The course blends classical CFD data handling with modern AI-based modeling. 
For the sake of education here we will use only **Ahmed Body Surface data** for traning and not volume data. 

## Quick Start Guide

### 1. Setting your environment to pull the PhysicsNeMo container from NGC:

1. Install NGC CLI:
```bash
wget https://ngc.nvidia.com/downloads/ngccli_linux.zip
unzip ngccli_linux.zip
chmod u+x ngc-cli/ngc
mv ngc-cli/ngc /usr/local/bin
```
2. Authenticate with NGC:
Go to `https://ngc.nvidia.com`, log in, and generate your API Key from your account settings.
Then configure the CLI:

```bash
ngc config set
```
when the config are set, check if your access works using:

```bash
ngc config current
```
### Download Ahmed Body surface dataset

The complete Ahmed body surface dataset is hosted on Google Drive and is accessible to NVIDIA internal users. If you are an external collaborator, please reach out to the NVIDIA development team to request access. To download the data, simply copy and paste the following link into your browser:

https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1KG9Vz0iepB-KyO44fRMeyf1RKoRSMdgE

Then unzip the data and copy them where you can acccess it from the cotainer,e.g. `/workspace/data/`

```bash
.
├── test
├── test_info
├── train
├── train_info
├── validation
└── validation_info
```


### Runing PhysicsNeMo container using dokcer command

Pull the PhysicsNeMo container with the following command:
```bash
docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/physicsnemo/physicsnemo:25.03
 ```

To launch the PhysicsNeMo container using docker, use the following command:

```bash
docker run --gpus 1  --shm-size=2g -p 7008:7008 --ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 --runtime nvidia -v <path_on_host>:/workspace -it --rm $(docker images | grep 25.03| awk '{print $3}')
 
```

Make sure to replace <path_on_host> with the absolute path to the directory on the host system that contains your Jupyter notebooks and Ahmed Body surface data. This path will be mounted as `/workspace` inside the container, providing access to your data and scripts during the session


### **Preparing the PhysicsNeMo Environment for DoMINO**

Training the DoMINO architecture requires using a specific branch from the PhysicsNeMo GitHub repository. To ensure the correct code is used by Python, you need to clone the repository and copy its contents directly into your Python environment's installation directory (/usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/physicsnemo/). Use the following commands in your container:

Follow these steps within your container to set up the PhysicsNeMo library for training the DoMINO architecture:

- Navigate to your workspace directory.
- Clone the PhysicsNeMo repository from GitHub.
- Enter the cloned repository directory.
- Switch to the domino branch.
- (Optional) List all branches to confirm you are on the domino branch.
- Copy the Python package files from the repository into your system's Python library path (/usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/physicsnemo/).

Execute these commands:
```bash
cd /workspace/
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/physicsnemo.git
cd physicsnemo
git checkout domino
git branch -a
rsync -av physicsnemo/* /usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/physicsnemo/
```

### start Jupyter Lab

From the terminal inside the container run the following command to start Jupyter Lab in the background:

```bash
nohup python3 -m jupyter lab --ip=0.0.0.0 --port=1234 --allow-root  --no-browser --NotebookApp.token='' --notebook-dir='/workspace/' --NotebookApp.allow_origin='*' > /dev/null 2>&1 &
```

Then from your labtop start a SSH tunnel using the host which your job is runing and the port which you assigned above `--port=1234`: 

```bash
ssh -L 3030:eos0311:1234 eos
```
Access Jupyter Lab using `http://localhost:1234` in your browser. 

### Dependencies

Please install the following in the container.
```bash
pip install numpy pyvista vtk matplotlib tqdm numpy-stl
apt install  xvfb
```

### Working with Jupyter Notebooks

1. In Jupyter Lab, navigate to the `exercises` directory
2. The notebooks are numbered in sequence (01-05). Start with `DLI_01.ipynb`
3. Each notebook contains:
   - Theory sections explaining the concepts
   - Code cells with detailed comments
   - Interactive visualizations
   - Progress checkpoints to verify your understanding

## Course Modules

### 1. [Preprocessing Ahmed body dataset for training with DoMINO](domino-data-preprocessing.ipynb)
- Loading and understanding VTK simulation data
- Data normalization techniques for ML
- Extracting key physical quantities
- Creating standardized datasets for training

### 2. [Training and Inferencing DoMINO Model](domino-training-test.ipynb)
- Understanding DoMINO architecture and physics-informed learning
- Training process
- Load Model Checkpoint & Run Inference
- Visualizing the predicted results

### Hardware Requirements
- NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support
- 4GB+ RAM
- 100GB+ disk space

### Software Requirements
- Docker with NVIDIA Container Toolkit
- NVIDIA Drivers (version 545 or later)
- SLURM workload manager

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Jupyter Lab Not Starting**
   - Check the SLURM job status: `squeue -u $USER`
   - View job logs: `cat physicsnemo-aero-dli/.logs/start_nim_*.out`

2. **NIM Server Issues**
   - Verify server health: `curl http://localhost:8000/v1/health/ready`
   - Check available models: `curl http://localhost:8000/v1/models`

3. **Memory Issues**
   - Monitor GPU memory: `nvidia-smi`
   - Check system memory: `free -h`

4. **GPU Support**

   - Run the following command to verify your container runtime supports NVIDIA GPUs:

```bash
docker run --rm --runtime=nvidia --gpus all ubuntu nvidia-smi
```

Expected output should show your GPU information, for example:
```
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NVIDIA-SMI 560.35.03              Driver Version: 560.35.03      CUDA Version: 12.6     |
|-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+
| GPU  Name                 Persistence-M | Bus-Id          Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
| Fan  Temp   Perf          Pwr:Usage/Cap |           Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
|                                         |                        |               MIG M. |
|=========================================+========================+======================|
|   0  NVIDIA A100-PCIE-40GB          Off |   00000000:41:00.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   37C    P0             35W /  250W |   40423MiB /  40960MiB |      0%      Default |
|                                         |                        |             Disabled |
+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+
```

## Additional Resources

- [NVIDIA Physics NeMo Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/nemo-physics/user-guide)
- [PyVista Documentation](https://docs.pyvista.org/) for 3D visualization
- [Ahmed Body Benchmark](https://www.cfd-online.com/Wiki/Ahmed_body) for background
- [Physics-Informed Neural Networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0021999118307125) paper
- [Graph Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.10943) for scientific computing
- [Neural Operators](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.08481) for PDEs
- [DGL Documentation](https://www.dgl.ai/) for graph neural networks
- [Triton Inference Server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server) for deployment

Commit message:

adding NGC repo for database download

workspace/python/jupyter_notebook/DoMINO/README.md, after:

# PhysicsNeMo External Aerodynamics DLI

This Deep Learning Institute (DLI) course introduces participants to physics-informed machine learning techniques applied to external aerodynamics. Using NVIDIA's Physics NeMo and NeMo Framework, the course walks through the full pipeline — from preprocessing CFD data to training and deploying advanced geometric deep learning models.

## Introduction

Participants will work with the **Ahmed body** benchmark — a canonical problem in automotive aerodynamics — to build a surrogate model. The course blends classical CFD data handling with modern AI-based modeling. 
For the sake of education here we will use only **Ahmed Body Surface data** for traning and not volume data. 

## Quick Start Guide

### 1. Setting your environment to pull the PhysicsNeMo container from NGC:

Please refer to the following link for instructions on setting up your environment to pull the PhysicsNeMo container from NGC:
https://docs.nvidia.com/launchpad/ai/base-command-coe/latest/bc-coe-docker-basics-step-02.html


### Download Ahmed Body surface dataset

The complete Ahmed body surface dataset is hosted on NGC and accessible from the following link:

https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/physicsnemo/resources/physicsnemo_ahmed_body_dataset

Then unzip the data and copy them where you can acccess it from the cotainer,e.g. `/workspace/data/`

```bash
.
├── test
├── test_info
├── train
├── train_info
├── validation
└── validation_info
```

Please note that the dataset contains VTP files, but training DoMINO and X-MeshGraphNet also requires STL files. Therefore, in the `domino-data-preprocessing.ipynb` notebook, STL files are extracted from the available VTP data.

### Runing PhysicsNeMo container using dokcer command

Pull the PhysicsNeMo container with the following command:
```bash
docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/physicsnemo/physicsnemo:25.06
 ```

To launch the PhysicsNeMo container using docker, use the following command:

```bash
docker run --gpus 1  --shm-size=2g -p 7008:7008 --ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 --runtime nvidia -v <path_on_host>:/workspace -it --rm $(docker images | grep 25.03| awk '{print $3}')
 
```

Make sure to replace <path_on_host> with the absolute path to the directory on the host system that contains your Jupyter notebooks and Ahmed Body surface data. This path will be mounted as `/workspace` inside the container, providing access to your data and scripts during the session


### **Preparing the PhysicsNeMo Environment for DoMINO**

Training the DoMINO architecture requires using a specific branch from the PhysicsNeMo GitHub repository. To ensure the correct code is used by Python, you need to clone the repository and copy its contents directly into your Python environment's installation directory (/usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/physicsnemo/). Use the following commands in your container:

Follow these steps within your container to set up the PhysicsNeMo library for training the DoMINO architecture:

- Navigate to your workspace directory.
- Clone the PhysicsNeMo repository from GitHub.
- Enter the cloned repository directory.
- Switch to the domino branch.
- (Optional) List all branches to confirm you are on the domino branch.
- Copy the Python package files from the repository into your system's Python library path (/usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/physicsnemo/).

Execute these commands:
```bash
cd /workspace/
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/physicsnemo.git
cd physicsnemo
rsync -av physicsnemo/* /usr/local/lib/python3.12/dist-packages/physicsnemo/
```

### start Jupyter Lab

From the terminal inside the container run the following command to start Jupyter Lab in the background:

```bash
nohup python3 -m jupyter lab --ip=0.0.0.0 --port=7008 --allow-root  --no-browser --NotebookApp.token='' --notebook-dir='/workspace/' --NotebookApp.allow_origin='*' > /dev/null 2>&1 &
```

Then from your labtop start a SSH tunnel using the host which your job is runing and the port which you assigned above `--port=1234`: 

```bash
ssh -L 3030:eos0311:7008 eos
```
Access Jupyter Lab using `http://localhost:1234` in your browser. 

### Dependencies

Please install the following in the container.
```bash
pip install numpy pyvista vtk matplotlib tqdm numpy-stl
apt install  xvfb
```

### Working with Jupyter Notebooks

1. In Jupyter Lab, navigate to the `exercises` directory
2. The notebooks are numbered in sequence (01-05). Start with `DLI_01.ipynb`
3. Each notebook contains:
   - Theory sections explaining the concepts
   - Code cells with detailed comments
   - Interactive visualizations
   - Progress checkpoints to verify your understanding

## Course Modules

### 1. [Preprocessing Ahmed body dataset for training with DoMINO](domino-data-preprocessing.ipynb)
- Loading and understanding VTK simulation data
- Data normalization techniques for ML
- Extracting key physical quantities
- Creating standardized datasets for training

### 2. [Training and Inferencing DoMINO Model](domino-training-test.ipynb)
- Understanding DoMINO architecture and physics-informed learning
- Training process
- Load Model Checkpoint & Run Inference
- Visualizing the predicted results

### Hardware Requirements
- NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support
- 4GB+ RAM
- 100GB+ disk space

### Software Requirements
- Docker with NVIDIA Container Toolkit
- NVIDIA Drivers (version 545 or later)
- SLURM workload manager

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Jupyter Lab Not Starting**
   - Check the SLURM job status: `squeue -u $USER`
   - View job logs: `cat physicsnemo-aero-dli/.logs/start_nim_*.out`

2. **NIM Server Issues**
   - Verify server health: `curl http://localhost:8000/v1/health/ready`
   - Check available models: `curl http://localhost:8000/v1/models`

3. **Memory Issues**
   - Monitor GPU memory: `nvidia-smi`
   - Check system memory: `free -h`

4. **GPU Support**

   - Run the following command to verify your container runtime supports NVIDIA GPUs:

```bash
docker run --rm --runtime=nvidia --gpus all ubuntu nvidia-smi
```

Expected output should show your GPU information, for example:
```
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NVIDIA-SMI 560.35.03              Driver Version: 560.35.03      CUDA Version: 12.6     |
|-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+
| GPU  Name                 Persistence-M | Bus-Id          Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
| Fan  Temp   Perf          Pwr:Usage/Cap |           Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
|                                         |                        |               MIG M. |
|=========================================+========================+======================|
|   0  NVIDIA A100-PCIE-40GB          Off |   00000000:41:00.0 Off |                    0 |
| N/A   37C    P0             35W /  250W |   40423MiB /  40960MiB |      0%      Default |
|                                         |                        |             Disabled |
+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+
```

## Additional Resources

- [NVIDIA Physics NeMo Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/nemo-physics/user-guide)
- [PyVista Documentation](https://docs.pyvista.org/) for 3D visualization
- [Ahmed Body Benchmark](https://www.cfd-online.com/Wiki/Ahmed_body) for background
- [Physics-Informed Neural Networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0021999118307125) paper
- [Graph Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.10943) for scientific computing
- [Neural Operators](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.08481) for PDEs
- [DGL Documentation](https://www.dgl.ai/) for graph neural networks
- [Triton Inference Server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server) for deployment
